Digging in and are wrestling with material is crucial to gaining
a deep understanding of that material and retaining it in your long term memory.
Research shows that we gain a deeper understanding of
what we've learned when we explain it to someone else.
After learning a concept and before going to the next lecture,
try summarizing that concept in your head.
Imagine that you're trying to explain it to someone else.
Or better yet, go and actually explain it to someone.
You can do this in person or on a video call with a friend or in your friendly community.
To help strengthen the connections in your brain and
improve both understanding and retention,
ask yourself follow up questions about the material. Here's an example.
If I changed X in the example,
would the code still work?
How would it change? Connect new information to something you already know.
In which way are the two similar or how are they different?
You can actually draw out the information in a visual form.
Shergar diagrams, visual models or flowcharts.
These strategies will help you accomplish three things.
They'll help you gain a deeper understanding of the material,
they'll help your classmates learn
the material and you'll actually have a lot of fun doing them.